extends: default.liquid

title: The Berlin Mozilla Tech Weekend 2015 Day 2
date: 12 December 2015 11:11:17 +0100
---
Welcome back for part two of my summary of the [Mozilla Tech
Weekend](http://www.meetup.com/Berlin-Mozilla-Meetup/events/226461969/). On
Sunday, November 29th, we organized some workshops as an hands-on part for
some of the topics of the tech talks we did on [day
1](http://blog.fiji-flo.de/mozillatechweekend2015/). In particular this
resulted in a session on *Hacking Addons for Firefox OS* and a second
session about starting with *Servo and Rust*. We did not really advertise
these workshops in advance as our Berlin Mozilla Community in still in its
baby shoes and we wanted to make sure that everyone who participated was
taken care of.


Luckily the snow was gone and we opened doors at 11 a.m. as we did on the
day before, this time in the [Mozilla
Office](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Berlin_Office). Being a Sunday *morning* it
took some time to get started. After some coffee we started around 11:30
a.m. with the **Firefox OS Addons** session. Michael Henretty showed [how to
write a first
addon](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Mozilla/Firefox_OS/Add-ons/Developing_Firefox_OS_add-ons)
and helped along the way. Just give it a try, it's really not that hard to
get started.


After some time and lunch we continued with our second session covering an
introduction into **Servo and Rust** by Till Schneidereit. We helped each
other setting up a development environment for servo and Till provided us
with an overview about the project.

![Rust/Servo session](../../img/sunday.jpg)


In the afternoon, around 4 p.m. we started to break up. We were having some
nice conversations while gathering our things and trying to finally depart
which takes quite some time when you don't want to stop talking.


I hope we see each other again early next year. Hopefully some of you at our
next Berlin Mozilla Community Meeting.


That's it for now. If you want to check out the [recordings of the
talks](http://blog.fiji-flo.de/mozilla-tech-weekend-videos-and-links/).
